 What Happens When Companies Pay Customers to Write Reviews? Navigation Menu Subscribe Sign In Account Menu Account Menu Hi, Guest Search Menu Close menu Search CLEAR SUGGESTED TOPICS Explore HBR Latest The Magazine Ascend Podcasts Store Webinars Newsletters Popular Topics Managing Yourself Leadership Strategy Managing Teams Gender Innovation Work-life Balance All Topics For Subscribers The Big Idea Data & Visuals Reading Lists Case Selections HBR Learning Subscribe My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Log Out Sign In Subscribe Latest Podcasts The Magazine Ascend Store Webinars Newsletters All Topics The Big Idea Data & Visuals Reading Lists Case Selections HBR Learning My Library Account Settings Log Out Sign In Your Cart Your Shopping Cart is empty. Visit Our Store Guest User Subscriber My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Log Out Reading List Reading Lists Customer experience What Happens When Companies Pay Customers to Write Reviews? Researchers found that it changes both the quantity and content of the feedback. by Kaitlin Woolley and Marissa A. Sharif by Kaitlin Woolley and Marissa A. Sharif June 25, 2021 HBR Staff/Viktar Lameika/ hudiemm/Getty Images Post Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print Summary. The vast majority of consumers read product reviews before making an online purchase, suggesting that most of us understand the value of honest, accurate reviews. Nevertheless, new research suggests that if you offer a financial incentive to customers in exchange for writing the review, they’re significantly more likely to write a positive review — even though the incentive is not at all contingent on the content of the review. Based on a series of studies, the authors found that offering an incentive as low as $0.20 or $1.00 increased the positivity of reviews by 40 to 70%. That said, the authors also note some situations in which incentives aren’t effective: Specifically, they won’t work to counteract negative sentiment in the face of a major public scandal, and they can also backfire if new customers feel that the reviews are positive to the point of inaccuracy. But in general, this research suggests that offering a financial incentive can be an effective strategy to help companies source more positive reviews. Post Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print If someone paid you to review a product, would you be more likely to write a positive review or a negative one? You might think that a financial incentive shouldn’t have any impact. After all, the purpose of product reviews is to provide honest feedback. Ninety-three percent of U.S. adults read reviews before making online purchases, suggesting that the vast majority of consumers understand the benefits of reliable reviews and would be motivated to write accurate ones themselves. New! HBR Learning Customer Focus Course Accelerate your career with Harvard ManageMentor®. HBR Learning’s online leadership training helps you hone your skills with courses like Customer Focus. Earn badges to share on LinkedIn and your resume. Access more than 40 courses trusted by Fortune 500 companies. Learn how to keep your customers—and their most important needs—front and center. Start Course Learn More & See All Courses Read more on Customer experience or related topic Strategy KW Kaitlin Woolley is an Associate Professor of Marketing at the SC Johnson College of Business at Cornell University. She studies the psychological processes underlying consumer motivation and decision making to help people better achieve their goals. MS Marissa A. Sharif is an Assistant Professor of Marketing at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Post Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print New! HBR Learning Customer Focus Course Accelerate your career with Harvard ManageMentor®. HBR Learning’s online leadership training helps you hone your skills with courses like Customer Focus. Earn badges to share on LinkedIn and your resume. Access more than 40 courses trusted by Fortune 500 companies. Learn how to keep your customers—and their most important needs—front and center. Start Course Learn More & See All Courses Read more on Customer experience or related topic Strategy Partner Center Latest Magazine Ascend Topics Podcasts Store The Big Idea Data & Visuals Case Selections HBR Learning Subscribe Explore HBR The Latest All Topics Magazine Archive The Big Idea Reading Lists Case Selections Podcasts Webinars Data & Visuals My Library Newsletters HBR Press HBR Ascend HBR Store Article Reprints Books Cases Collections Magazine Issues HBR Guide Series HBR 20-Minute Managers HBR Emotional Intelligence Series HBR Must Reads Tools About HBR Contact Us Advertise with Us Information for Booksellers/Retailers Masthead Global Editions Media Inquiries Guidelines for Authors HBR Analytic Services Copyright Permissions Manage My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Account FAQ Help Center Contact Customer Service Follow HBR Facebook X Corp. LinkedIn Instagram Your Newsreader About Us Careers Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Information Trademark Policy Terms of Use Harvard Business Publishing: Higher Education Corporate Learning Harvard Business Review Harvard Business School Copyright © Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved. Harvard Business Publishing is an affiliate of Harvard Business School. 
