 How to Pay Your Sales Force Navigation Menu Subscribe Sign In Account Menu Account Menu Hi, Guest Search Menu Close menu Search CLEAR SUGGESTED TOPICS Explore HBR Latest The Magazine Ascend Podcasts Store Webinars Newsletters Popular Topics Managing Yourself Leadership Strategy Managing Teams Gender Innovation Work-life Balance All Topics For Subscribers The Big Idea Data & Visuals Reading Lists Case Selections HBR Learning Subscribe My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Log Out Sign In Subscribe Latest Podcasts The Magazine Ascend Store Webinars Newsletters All Topics The Big Idea Data & Visuals Reading Lists Case Selections HBR Learning My Library Account Settings Log Out Sign In Your Cart Your Shopping Cart is empty. Visit Our Store Guest User Subscriber My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Log Out Reading List Reading Lists Motivating people How to Pay Your Sales Force Using the results of a survey of 380 companies in 34 industries, this author examines three basic types of compensation plans: salary, commission, and combination (salary plus commission). Most companies in the study favored a combination plan, but such plans have some disadvantages to offset their obvious attractiveness. The author sets out the possible reasons […] by John P. Steinbrink by John P. Steinbrink From the Magazine (July 1978) Post Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print Post Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print Any discussion with sales executives would bring forth a consensus that compensation is the most important element in a program for the management and motivation of a field sales force. It can also be the most complex. A version of this article appeared in the July 1978 issue of Harvard Business Review. New! HBR Learning Leading People Course Accelerate your career with Harvard ManageMentor®. HBR Learning’s online leadership training helps you hone your skills with courses like Leading People. Earn badges to share on LinkedIn and your resume. Access more than 40 courses trusted by Fortune 500 companies. What you need to know about being in charge. Start Course Learn More & See All Courses Read more on Motivating people or related topics Sales and marketing and Compensation and benefits JS Mr. Steinbrink is editorial director of the Dartnell Corporation and is author of Dartnell’s 18th and 19th Biennial Survey of Compensation of Salesmen. He is a member of the board of advisors and contributors, Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance. He was formerly director of Sales and Marketing Executives International, Chicago. Post Post Share Annotate Save Get PDF Buy Copies Print New! HBR Learning Leading People Course Accelerate your career with Harvard ManageMentor®. HBR Learning’s online leadership training helps you hone your skills with courses like Leading People. Earn badges to share on LinkedIn and your resume. Access more than 40 courses trusted by Fortune 500 companies. What you need to know about being in charge. Start Course Learn More & See All Courses Read more on Motivating people or related topics Sales and marketing and Compensation and benefits Partner Center Latest Magazine Ascend Topics Podcasts Store The Big Idea Data & Visuals Case Selections HBR Learning Subscribe Explore HBR The Latest All Topics Magazine Archive The Big Idea Reading Lists Case Selections Podcasts Webinars Data & Visuals My Library Newsletters HBR Press HBR Ascend HBR Store Article Reprints Books Cases Collections Magazine Issues HBR Guide Series HBR 20-Minute Managers HBR Emotional Intelligence Series HBR Must Reads Tools About HBR Contact Us Advertise with Us Information for Booksellers/Retailers Masthead Global Editions Media Inquiries Guidelines for Authors HBR Analytic Services Copyright Permissions Manage My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Account FAQ Help Center Contact Customer Service Follow HBR Facebook X Corp. LinkedIn Instagram Your Newsreader About Us Careers Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Information Trademark Policy Terms of Use Harvard Business Publishing: Higher Education Corporate Learning Harvard Business Review Harvard Business School Copyright © Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved. Harvard Business Publishing is an affiliate of Harvard Business School. 
