How to Use ChatGPT in Daily Life? | Level Up CodingOpen in appSign upSign inWriteSign upSign inHow to Use ChatGPT in Daily Life?Save time and money using ChatGPTTirendaz AI·FollowPublished inLevel Up Coding·9 min read·Apr 3, 2023--134ListenShareImage by FreepikAI has made a huge leap in the past few years and this is just the beginning! With tools like ChatGPT and Midjourney, many have seen the power of AI. AI tools are now at the center of our lives.According to a recent study, it is said that these tools can replace 300 million jobs. Trends change every 6–7 years and now the new trend is AI! You definitely need to learn AI tools to follow this trend.Yeah, AI will eliminate some jobs, but many more new job opportunities will emerge. For example, prompt engineering is already trending. Prompt engineers ensure AI tools work best using the right inputs.Many people have seen the power of AI with ChatGPT, but they still don’t quite know what to do with this tool. This blog post will walk you through how to use ChatGPT with 8 different scenarios. First of all, let’s take a brief look at what ChatGPT is.What is ChatGPT?ChatGPT is actually a chatbot. It is a powerful tool that can help you with tasks such as composing emails, essays, and code. Maybe ChatGPT will be your best friend in the future.This model was originally developed based on the GPT-3.5 model and is specially trained for chatting. With the release of GPT-4, ChatGPT started using this model.While this dialog robot used to only accept text input, it now accepts visual inputs as well. For example, when you draw a website model and give it to ChatGPT, this model gives you the necessary codes to build it for the site.Converting the mockup to a website with ChatGPTWhat you can do with ChatGPT is only limited by your imagination. But, you need to learn how to use this tool. This blog will show you how to use ChatGPT in daily life with different scenarios. You can use ChatGPT for free. But, if you pay $20 a month, you can use this chatbot faster and based on GPT-4.Good, we briefly reviewed what ChatGPT is. Now, let’s look at the usage scenarios.1. SummarizingNew books come out every day in areas such as finance, motivation, and programming, right? Let’s be real, we don’t have time to read most of these books. This is where ChatGPT comes into play.To show this, let’s ask ChatGPT to summarize the animal farm book by George Orwell. Let’s say,Summarize animal farm by George Orwell.As you can see, ChatGPT is writing us a summary of the book. Of course, it’s better to read the whole book. But if you don’t have the time, this is one way to get an idea of the book. Thus, by looking at this summary, you can decide whether to spend time on the book.Ok, we’ve seen how ChatGPT summarizes a book. Let’s move on to how to find the best products using ChatGPT.2. RecommendationWe always want to find the best quality products and read the best books. We often read reviews and watch videos to find the best ones. But this process is very tiring and takes a lot of time, right? Don’t worry, ChatGPT helps you find the best products.Let’s say, you want to specialize in data science. You want to find the best books for this. Just ask this to ChatGPT. Hey ChatGPT,Recommend 5 best books on data science.As you can see, ChatGPT started recommending books within seconds. It is writing not only the names of the books but also the features of the books.It’s great, right? In this way, you can get holiday, movie, and computer recommendations from ChatGPT.Ok, we saw how to get recommendations to find the best product using ChatGPT. Let’s go ahead and see how we can use ChatGPT for marketing.3. MarketingWe all have expertise in different areas. For example, I like to deal with data science, AI, and programming. But, we can’t be experts in every field, can we?For example, let’s consider a web developer. This person may well be an expert in web development and design. On the one hand, he or she needs to advertise himself to get a job, or he or she needs to pay agencies for advertising.The good news is that ChatGPT can be your lifesaver to avoid spending money. This model is definitely a game changer for making money.For example, you want to create a Facebook ad. Hey ChatGPT,Create a Facebook ad for the best web development agency.Bammm. As you can see, it first wrote the title and then gave us the necessary texts.This’s amazing. You no longer need to search for an agency for an advertisement. ChatGPT did this for you in seconds.I have good news. ChatGPT is not just limited to advertising. From e-mail campaigns to social media posts, you can have this model do all your marketing content. So you can save both time and money.Ok, we’ve seen how to use ChtGPT in marketing. Let’s go ahead and see how to use this tool for content creation.4. Creating ContentCreating content has become one of the most important skills today. By creating content, you can both improve yourself and create a wide network.It’s important to find interesting titles for your content. When you make a youtube video or write a blog post, you should find a catchy title. To do this, you can use ChatGPT.Let’s say, you want to create an AI-supported education platform. You want to find an interesting title for this startup idea. You can use ChatGPT for this. Hey ChatGPT,I want to build an AI-powered education platform. Suggest 10 catchy names for this startup idea.As you can see, it started to write 10 names. You can use one of these names for your startup. Awesome, if you want, you can also create catchy titles for your blog post or for your youtube channel in this way.Ok, we’ve seen how to use ChatGPT to create content. Now let’s look at how to use this model to learn real-life stories.5 . Personal DevelopmentI love reading real-life stories for inspiration. But let’s be real, reading long life stories can be daunting at times. This is where ChatGPT comes into play. This tool is pretty talented when you want to see a summary of the real stories of successful people.For example, you want to learn about the life of Steve Jobs for inspiration. You can get help from ChatGPT for this. Let’s ask, hey ChatGPT,Tell me the true story of Steve Jobs, the Apple founder to motivate me.The life story of Steve Jobs is an inspiration to many. He founded a company at the age of 19 and developed the first Apple computer with Steve Wozniak.He is then fired from the company he founded. At this point, many thought your career was over.However, Jobs founded another computer company called NeXT and bought an animation studio called Pixar. The acquisition of Pixar by Disney was a huge success for him.After these successes, he returned to Apple as the CEO, which he founded, and was fired. And provided the development of innovative products such as the iPod, iPhone, and iPad.This way, you can learn about the life stories of successful people like Bill Gates and be inspired by their stories.Ok, in this section, we looked at how to use ChatGPT for personal development. Let’s go ahead and take a look at how ChatGPT simplifies complex matters.6. Simplifying Complex IssuesWe often encountered complex, difficult-to-understand problems. Sometimes understanding these issues is a big challenge. It would be great if someone could explain complex concepts by simplifying them, right?I have great news for you. ChatGPT simplifies everything for you. Whether you’re a programmer, marketer, or just a curious student, ChatGPT makes the most complex topics easy for you to understand.For example, let’s ask ChatGPT to explain quantum computing to us simply. Hey ChatGPT,Explain quantum computing like I'm 5.Bammm. As you can see, it simplified a complex subject like quantum computing and gave simple examples when explaining.You can get an idea of this complex subject by reading this text. Whether you want to learn the latest complex technological topics or grasp complex academic terms, ChatGPT is at your service. Ask this tool to simplify difficult topics, sit back and just read the magic words.Ok, you’ve seen how ChatGPT makes complex topics understandable. Let’s go ahead and discuss how to use ChatGPT to improve your writing skills.7. Improving Your Writing SkillsDo you feel embarrassed or uncomfortable about your English skills? Don’t worry, many people feel the same way.Unless you live in a native English-speaking country, it will be difficult for you to learn grammar rules and everyday expressions. But, fear not, ChatGPT will help you improve your language skills in seconds.Let’s say, you want to receive payment from a company. Write your sentences first and then turn them into more formal sentences with ChatGPT. Let me show you this. Hey ChatGPT,Rewrite this sentence more formally: "I want to receive payment. Can you send the invoice"As you can see, it wrote this sentence in a more formal way in seconds. You can also use ChatGPT for purposes such as correcting grammar errors, improving text fluency, or translating content.Okay, you’ve seen how you can use this tool for language. Let’s finally take a look at how to use ChatGPT to get a job.8. Preparing for interviewsIt’s hard to show your potential in interviews. You wish to showcase your knowledge and skills, but at the same time, HR tries to give you the lowest possible salary.You can ask ChatGPT for the best tips and tricks to succeed in interviews. Let’s demonstrate this with an example. Let’s say, hey ChatGPT,Act as an interviewer and ask me 10 difficult questions as a data scientist.As you can see, ChatGPT started writing the questions. By studying these questions, you can answer questions asked in the interview like an expert.But wait, that’s not all. ChatGPT also helps you negotiate a better salary. Let’s say, hey ChatGPT,How do I respond if the interviewer asks me for a salary?Interviews are essentially a tactical struggle. By applying these strategies, you can receive a salary from your employer commensurate with your skills.Wrap-UpThe new trend today is to use AI tools. One of the most important of these tools is ChatGPT. If you use ChatGPT correctly, it helps you a lot in your daily life, saving you time and money. In this blog, we covered 8 different usage scenarios of ChatGPT. You can also use this tool for coding, creating a resume, writing a screenplay, and even designing.That’s it. Thanks for reading. Let’s connect YouTube | Medium | Twitter | Instagram.4 Important Things to Know About GPT-4A guide to unlocking the power of GPT-4medium.com7 Steps to Become a Machine Learning EngineerA comprehensive guide with courses and booksheartbeat.comet.mlResourcesI Used ChatGPT (Every day) for 3 Months, Here’s What I’ve LearnedLevel Up CodingThanks for being a part of our community! Before you go:👏 Clap for the story and follow the author 👉📰 View more content in the Level Up Coding publication💰 Free coding interview course ⇒ View Course🔔 Follow us: Twitter | LinkedIn | Newsletter🚀👉 Join the Level Up talent collective and find an amazing jobChatGPTArtificial IntelligenceTechnologyGpt 4Deep Learning----134FollowWritten by Tirendaz AI9.7K Followers·Writer for Level Up CodingGenerative AI & Data Science | Top writer on Medium | YouTuber on AI: https://bit.ly/subscribe-tirendazaiFollowHelpStatusAboutCareersBlogPrivacyTermsText to speechTeams 
